Steve Tim thanks for joining us to talk
about a wine I'm sure we want to talk
about the 2004 Grange we've been
awaiting this for some time but before
we pour what about telling us a little
Tim about the vintage 2004 thanks Peter
yes the 2004 vintage started off with
some very good winter and early spring
rains coming into November the weather
started to warm up until Christmas time
and then January became quite cool a
mold which was fantastic up the early
heat until no februari I should say and
then it became really hot with 17 days
of above 30 degrees within 17 which
really accelerated ripening and
therefore vintage commenced to early
into March well we'll pour this and
maybe talk a little bit about the wine
stay because 2004 is considered to be
one of the great vintages you're right
Peter I think 2004 Grange will go down
as one of the a-grade Granger's
certainly right up there with some of
the classics terrific it is grange
though isn't it so there are a few
constants like one hundred percent new
oak it's a hundred percent new oak and
majority from the Barossa Valley as most
Granger's are with a little bit from
McLaren Vale as well in 2004 that
changes every year of course yeah I
don't think we could forget the
important part McGill played in this
Steve but a couple of percent to the
McGill Shiraz that's right so McGill
McGill vineyard still very important as
a blending component for practice and of
course maturation air half matured in
the barossa and half matured at McGill
in the original underground cellars this
smells magnificent yeah it's got a
beautiful nose on it what sir the
cellaring ability for this Peter oh look
we say you know even a normal Grange
will go at least 30 years but we tasted
this a little early this morning and we
were looking about 2012 to about 2000 45
but look there are no absolutes that's
our opinion today but that gives us a
rough idea I think of how long the vinyl
age but when we say from 2012 onwards
really you can drink it upon release
we're talking optimal drinking yeah
but are those aromatics what mmm
powerful I'm really intense and
concentrated isn't it yeah indeed you
know and it is a 1 you can drink upon
release but that primary fruit all of
that character up front will go to those
secondary and tertiary stages across
many decades because this is an a-grade
Grange if we can use that expression you
know people will be drinking this wine
in 50 years 40 years you know they have
that choice they don't necessarily have
to drink it now they can keep it over
many decades it'll only get more complex
and more interesting as it gets older
indeed indeed now Steve Granger's there
only being what five to date release
that are a hundred percent sure as this
one contains a little bit of Cabernet
yeah this one is just over four percent
and that really does add just a little
bit more structure and backbone and 2004
was a a great year for Cabernet in the
paratha as well mmm okay to buy magna of
that too I think yes know what a
wonderful release I think this will
offer a lot of drinking enjoyment over
many many years Sherman Cheers 2004
Grange
you